hey there I'm back spring now and I
wanted to show you how to harvest and
enjoy eating your garden snails you're
anything like me eating snails a lot in
restaurants they're family favorite
around here
and if you're a gardener you also find
the little garden snails pretty
obnoxious if you have enough of them
making you some real damage to your
plants
so the best solution for your snails is
to harvest them eat them and enjoy them
I'll be out of your hair and you get a
really nice appetizer out of it if
you're going to harvest your snails
there's just two things you didn't need
to make sure you have in advance one is
a bag canvas bag or paper bag to collect
them in you want to make sure you'll use
plastic because the snails need to
breathe and the other is a good
container that also allows the snails to
breathe so here I'm going to use this
plastic Tupperware and I'm going to
cover it with some breathable washcloths
there once I've collected my snails so
make sure you have both of those things
before you start otherwise you're not
going to have anywhere to put your
snails and you collected the best time
to look for snails is right after a rain
you just had a little bit of a rain
shower here and now all of the snails
are coming out you can see them there to
the tops of the foliage they look for
the moisture so they come out into plain
view and it easy to find otherwise
they're probably hiding under leaves or
wherever they can hide during the heat
of the day so wait till just after a
rain when it's nice and cool and the
snails will start coming out be easy to
harvest snails because they're very very
slow so all you need to do is reach out
and pick them off I'm going to put this
guy in my bag just like that and then he
goes look for the big snails your garden
snails are going to be pretty small in
comparison to ones you're used to at a
restaurant so you just want to look for
the big ones and leave the small ones
alone I know it's a little hard to see
these guys focus but here's another nice
big one
he comes and in the bag so after a nice
spring shower if you're looking through
leafy green areas of your garden which
is where the snails like to hang out
should take you just a couple minutes
and get a nice bag full of pretty big
snails you can see your garden snails
should have these little striped shelves
right just like that they're pretty and
these are the guys you're looking
forward to eat so all I'm going to do
now is take my little harvest and put it
in my bit come in there and pick off
anyone who's trying to escape there we
go the garden snails are perfectly safe
to eat and really tasty as I said but
you don't know what they've been eating
the whole time I live out in your garden
so one important thing about harvesting
snails you can't eat them right away you
have to keep them for about a week and
feed them a nice clean diet to be sure
that they're going to be safe out
somebody's escaping so what I like to do
is just feed them a little bit of yellow
corn
just like this just pour some in there
they don't really need very much you can
actually just feed them nothing for a
week as well some people do that but I
like to give them a little bit of food
so that they stay nice and big so put
some formula in your container snails
and then cover it up like I said earlier
it's very important that the snails be
able to breathe because you need them to
stay alive during this first week so
it's been about two days since I put my
snails in their container and here you
can see it it actually eating all the
cornmeal so they're pretty hungry and
you can see there's a lot of snail poop
in there as well it's all that white and
brown stuff that's a good sign means
they're cleaning themselves out so what
we need to do now is wash the snails off
and wash out their container that's
going to get rid of the poop and it's
also going to give them a drink they
need water like any living creature so
this will help them get a drink so what
I'm going to do is put them in their
column column here just like that as you
can see right now they're all dormant
they're not moving
[Music]
and that's perfectly normal at this
stage for them to be dormant but they
should all wake up once I started
spraying them with water so one other
benefit of doing this is that you'll
find any any dead snails you can take
out cuz you don't want any dead ones so
just going to turn on cool water and
rinse them
now you can start to see some of the
snails are waking up the little feet are
coming out that's what the bottom the
snail is called the foot and so for
example this guy here clearly awake
there's a little antenna and he's
getting annoyed at me so I'm going to
play him back in the container and as
long as they're all waking up get them
back in your container and seal it again
make sure once again that the snails can
breathe and leave them for another
couple days and then clean them again so
you can see everybody is alive and
active and you got to be careful at this
point because you will have a lot of
attempted escapees they really get going
after you spray them down with some
water but as long as you've seen them
move a little bit or sees a little
something coming out of every one of
their feet they're definitely alive just
make sure you add some more food for
them and cornmeal or if you're using
white flower or a leaf that's fine too
just give them a little more food and
seal them back up so it's been one week
and my snails have been eating their
clean diet of cornmeal there and now it
is time to cook the snails the first
thing we're going to do is clean them
off they've gotten into their own poop a
little bit they've probably touched that
so we want a nice and clean I'm going to
pour a little bit of vinegar bowl here
and add some water business vapor and
water mix and drop all my snails into a
vinegar and water mixture
[Music]
from an icon
so okay here I have a stockpot with
enough water to cover all my snails
I've got it at a vigorous boil the
snails are clean and they're in their
colander and I'm now going to toss them
into the stockpot vigorous boil and then
put them in for about five minutes so
what I'm doing right now is I'm killing
six maybe they're alive up to this point
and this will kill them and that's one
of the reasons I like to make sure the
stockpot is at a rolling boil before I
throw them in there I figured that we
hit go faster it I don't torture the
poor little guys so there they are
boiling away and we'll give them five
minutes in the stockpot so now I boil my
snails for five minutes and in water and
just let them cool down enough so you
can touch them and work with a little
bit what we're going to do now is remove
the shells your garden snails are going
to be pretty small in comparison to
snail that you're going to get at a
restaurant and so you may have seen in a
restaurant snails that are served in
their shells one thing that's important
to realize about that is that those
snails have been taken out of their
shells first they've been cooked like
I'm going to show you and then they've
been put back in their shells for
decoration it's very difficult to do
that with your garden snails because
their shells are small so the technique
I'm going to show you is just going to
destroy the shell and you'll serve them
out of the shells which is another way
you'll see them sometimes anyway so all
I'm going to do is just crack into the
shell with a knife I happen to use a
Chinese chef's knife but if you use a
Western chef's knife that's fine I'm
just going to give them a good crack
like this sort of like an egg and the
shell is going to crack apart and again
kind of like an egg I'm going to remove
the shell from around the snail
shouldn't come off pretty easy and here
you got a snail keep the shells away
we're going to rinse those off later and
this is a taste is now ready to go so
here I've got my snails with the shells
removed now the way I showed you how to
remove the shells can sometime
very small bits of shell on the snail so
you want to do is rinse them one more
time and just run your fingers through
them and your fingers will tell you if
you feel anything hard or sharp this
little piece of shell and just try to
get it out of there but it usually comes
off pretty well with the rinse
[Music]
and you should be all set so now it's
time to actually cook the snails and
that's pretty easy to do I like to get
my snails in beer you could use a white
wine as well or just some kind of the
stock if you like so I'm going to put in
one bottle of the nice Canadian beer
here
and about a cup and a half of water
usually about a one-to-one proportion of
beer to water and then put my snails on
it I'm going to heat that up bring it to
a boil and then I'm going to simmer the
snails for between one and three hours
one hour for these snails should get
them pretty tender but you really can't
overcook it so if you want to just keep
going that's fine as well so somewhere
between one and three hours simmering
and just at a boil on the stove top so
in here I'm going to make my garlic
butter can't have snails webknights
garlic butter this is about for the
dozen garden snails that I've picked up
about a quarter cup of unsalted butter
and I've put three cloves of minced
garlic already I'm just going to add
some herbs to it here I've got about a
teaspoon of marjoram a teaspoon of dried
parsley and a little bit of tarragon if
you don't like tarragon then don't add
it salt and pepper to taste and off you
go
so my snail isn't boiling for about an
hour and a half I'm just going to scoop
them up with a strainer put them in my
butter mix everything together and they
are to go a serving dish and to eat
snails of course are traditionally eaten
with a nice little piece of toast so
just pop one on there and there you go
you're going to find that these snails
from your garden are very tender a very
nice flavor probably better than
anything you've had before and snails so
enjoy